hi! i have a gym in dallas for women and im paying 1600 dollars a month for a guy that gave me this service, example: if you're a random person chatting with the instagram account of my gym the chat will be something like this user-profile-picture
DWC - Dallas Wellness Club
dallaswellnessclubb · Instagram
Sat 8:19 PM
hola que tal
Holaaa hermosa!! 💖 Te paso la info
📍 2640 Old Denton Rd, Carrollton Texas 75007
Lunes a Viernes a las ☀️ 6:00 AM ☀️ 7:00 AM ☀️ 8:00 AM ☀️ 9:00 AM ☀️ 10:00 AM  🌙 3:00 PM 🌙 4:00 PM 🌙 5:00 PM 🌙 6:00 PM 🌙 7:00 PM
✨Las 1ra clase es GRATIS✨
¿Es mejor las mañanas o las tardes para ti? 😊
creo que mañanas, que info me puedes dar?
¡Perfecto Manu! 💖 Es divertido y para principiantes, rutinas en grupo adaptadas para todas, en un ambiente motivador y solo para mujeres ✨
¿Te gustaría agendar tu clase gratis en la mañana? Tengo horarios desde las 6:00 AM a 10:00 AM, ¿quieres que te pase los primeros espacios disponibles?
y por la tarde tienes espacios tambien? si tuvieses una clase sin espacio no podria entrar no?
¡Así es Manu! 💖 Si una clase ya está llena, te ofrezco otro horario disponible para que no te quedes sin tu clase gratis.
¿Quieres que te pase los primeros espacios disponibles en la mañana y la tarde para que elijas?  and then on whatsapp itll be something like this [26/09/2026, 20:24:29] ‪+1 (682) 220‑8198‬: Listo ✅ Manu esta es tu confirmación para tu pase Gratis del ejercicio 🗓️ Monday  a las 8:00 AM 📍2640 Old Denton Rd, Carrollton Texas 75007 ¡Nos vemos pronto! 💖
[27/09/2026, 15:02:43] ‪+1 (682) 220‑8198‬: ¡Hola Manu!
Solo recordándote que mañana es tu clase de ejercicio es en 2640 Old Denton Rd, Carrollton Texas 75007 a las 8:00 AM. Nos vemos . how can i do this myself to stop paying someone else for this SaaS??
Yes—you can likely run this yourself for far less than $1,600/month, especially if that fee mainly covers automated messages, trial-class bookings, and reminders.
What you’re seeing is usually a few connected tools, rather than a custom-built app. You probably don’t need to build your own software to replace it. The main thing to check first is whether the $1,600 also covers advertising, human sales follow-up, or other work.
What your current system is doing
Based on your examples:
Step
Someone messages your gym on Instagram
It answers in Spanish, uses their name, and asks about preferred times
It offers a free trial and collects details
It reserves a class
It sends a WhatsApp confirmation and reminder
One important detail: the bot saying “if a class is full, I’ll offer another time” doesn’t prove it actually checks capacity. Your replacement should check real availability and reserve a spot before sending a confirmation.
The simplest way to do it yourself
For a nontechnical gym owner, I’d start with:
Instagram automation + your gym’s booking system + automated WhatsApp reminders.
Common tools to evaluate:

- Manychat: commonly used for Instagram conversations and lead capture. Check its current plan requirements and WhatsApp capabilities before subscribing.
- A class-booking platform: ideally whatever you already use for memberships and attendance. It needs class capacity, free-trial bookings, cancellations, and an integration or automation feature.
- Make or Zapier: connects the booking system to messaging when there isn’t a built-in connection.
- WhatsApp Business Platform: sends automated confirmations and reminders through an approved provider. The regular WhatsApp Business phone app alone generally isn’t enough for this connected workflow.
You may not need all four subscriptions—some platforms combine these features.
What should it cost?
For a modest-volume, self-managed setup, roughly $100–$300/month is a reasonable starting budget, although the actual cost depends on your contact count, booking software, messaging provider, and usage. That is a planning estimate, not a verified quote.
There will also be some initial setup work and occasional maintenance. If your current provider is doing substantial human follow-up or ad management, replacing the software won’t replace that labor.
How I’d set up the conversation for your gym
I’d keep the booking process structured and use AI only for optional questions. You don’t need AI to reliably book a free class.

1. Welcome them and identify what they want
¡Holaaa! 💖 Bienvenida a Dallas Wellness Club. Somos un gimnasio para mujeres en Carrollton y tu primera clase es gratis.  
¿Qué te gustaría hacer?  
Agendar clase gratis Ver horarios Hablar con alguien
2. Answer the common questions
Give the system your approved information:

- Address and parking directions.
- Actual class schedule.
- Whether classes are suitable for beginners.
- Prices, if you want them available in chat.
- What to bring.
- Free-trial eligibility.
- Cancellation policy.
If you use AI, make sure it doesn’t invent prices, class availability, or policies.

3. Let them choose a real class
The easiest first version sends a booking link where they choose from available classes. You can make booking happen entirely inside the chat later, but that requires a more involved integration.
For classes with, say, 15 spots, the booking system should handle the capacity limit across all bookings, including existing members—not just Instagram leads.
2. Collect their contact details and WhatsApp permission
For example:
¿A qué número de WhatsApp te enviamos la confirmación y el recordatorio? Incluye el código de país.  
¿Aceptas recibir por WhatsApp la confirmación y los recordatorios de esta reserva?
Record their consent with the booking.
3. Send confirmation only after the reservation succeeds
¡Lista, Ana! 💖 Tu clase gratis está confirmada:  
🗓️ Lunes 28 de septiembre, 8:00 AM  
📍 2640 Old Denton Rd, Carrollton, TX 75007  
Llega 10 minutos antes. Si necesitas cambiar tu reserva, usa este enlace: enlace
Use a full date and the gym’s Dallas time zone so “Monday” or “tomorrow” doesn’t become confusing.
4. Send a reminder the day before
The automation should check that the booking is still active before sending. A cancellation or reschedule should update the reminders too.
A WhatsApp detail that matters
Business-initiated WhatsApp confirmations and reminders typically need approved message templates, especially outside the 24-hour customer-service window. An Instagram conversation does not open that WhatsApp window.
That’s why you want a tool using the official WhatsApp Business Platform. Your messaging provider should guide you through template approval and current message charges.
Before cancelling the person you’re paying
Get control of your accounts and data first. Ask them:
“I’m bringing our messaging and booking automation in-house. Please send me the platform names and an ownership/access inventory for our Meta Business Portfolio, Instagram connection, WhatsApp Business Account and phone number, booking system, contacts, approved message templates, and automations. Please also explain what the $1,600 monthly fee includes and what can be transferred or exported.”
Specifically, confirm:

- Your business controls the Instagram account and Meta Business Portfolio.
- Who owns and controls the WhatsApp number. If it belongs to the provider, keeping it may require their cooperation.
- Where bookings and customer contacts are stored, and what you can export.
- Whether you can take over the existing software account and pay its subscription directly. This could be the easiest option.
- Which upcoming bookings and reminders are already scheduled, so the switch doesn’t lose appointments or send duplicates.
Test the new setup with your own Instagram and WhatsApp accounts—including a full class, cancellation, and reschedule—before switching customers over.
My recommendation
First, try to take over the existing setup. If that isn’t possible, start with Instagram automation that answers FAQs and sends a booking link, then add WhatsApp confirmations and reminders. That gets you most of the value without an expensive custom project.
To narrow this down to the right tools for you:

1. Do you already use an app to manage gym memberships or class bookings?
2. Does the $1,600 include ads or someone personally following up with leads, or just this automation?
3. Is that WhatsApp number yours, and do you know which platform the provider uses?
▣  Build · GPT-6 Astra · 1m 9s
the 1600 usd only covers this ai generated message systems that as you can see checks classes slots and puts the possible customer into a class, it can check wether a class is full or not and it looks like it uses a calendar or something like that system. it doesnt cover advertising, human sales follow up at all. just this system. btw im the brother of the gym owner and im technical, im a swe at datadog you can talk t me about hard stuff. maybe the class booking platform could be make or zapier because i dont think we need our own backedn for this. an dim pretty sure we can get this working with less than 100 a month. >>  roughly $100–$300/month is a reasonable starting budget << why so much? it will handle less than 500 people. >>¡Holaaa! 💖 Bienvenida a Dallas Wellness Club. Somos un gimnasio para mujeres en Carrollton y tu primera clase es gratis.  
¿Qué te gustaría hacer?  
Agendar clase gratis Ver horarios Hablar con alguien << i wouldnt give them the option of talking to a real person, they're pretty busy and if they want real talk, they should go to the free class. >>Address and parking directions.

- Actual class schedule.
- Whether classes are suitable for beginners.
- Prices, if you want them available in chat.
- What to bring.
- Free-trial eligibility.
- Cancellation policy. << ill give you everything u need dw. 3. i would like the bot to add them to the class itself, so the customer does no work outside of the chat. >>i wil l handle this myself Before cancelling the person you’re paying
Get control of your accounts and data first. Ask them:
“I’m bringing our messaging and booking automation in-house. Please send me the platform names and an ownership/access inventory for our Meta Business Portfolio, Instagram connection, WhatsApp Business Account and phone number, booking system, contacts, approved message templates, and automations. Please also explain what the $1,600 monthly fee includes and what can be transferred or exported.” . dont talk about it that's not this chats concern<<  answering your questions, Do you already use an app to manage gym memberships or class bookings? 1. they use something but its tied to the 1600 usd service so we can use whatever we want. 2. no 3. its theirs it will be available to use
You’re right: **under $100/month is a realistic target for this volume**, especially with you implementing it. My earlier $100–$300 estimate assumed stacked SaaS subscriptions; that isn’t necessary here.
You want an agent that answers questions, checks actual availability, books directly inside Instagram chat, and sends WhatsApp confirmations/reminders. No booking links or “talk to a person” menu required.
What I’d build
A small serverless application using Meta’s APIs directly, with a database as the booking system.
Instagram DMs ──► Meta webhook ──► message handler ──► LLM
                                        │               │
                                        │          tool calls
                                        │               ▼
                                        └──────── booking functions
                                                        │
                                                        ▼
                                                    Database
                                                        │
                                              scheduled reminder job
                                                        │
                                                        ▼
                                            WhatsApp Cloud API
One TypeScript repository, a handful of endpoints/functions, and a small relational schema. No servers to manage.
Suggested stack
Component
Instagram messages
WhatsApp messages
Webhooks, orchestration, reminder scheduler
Booking and conversation storage
Conversation model
Staff view
Supabase/Postgres is also a good option if you prefer SQL transactions and its tooling. I wouldn’t add it alongside D1—choose one.
Meta onboarding, permissions, and getting the messaging integration working will likely be more tedious than building the booking logic. Exact requirements depend on the Instagram login/integration route and whether your app serves only your own business assets or other businesses.
Can Make or Zapier be the booking platform?
They can orchestrate the workflow, but they aren’t the booking system. Something still needs to store class instances, capacity, and reservations.
You could build:
Instagram → Make → LLM → Airtable/calendar → WhatsApp
That can work, but I wouldn’t choose it given your background:
- A single conversation can consume many billable automation steps.
- Retries, duplicate webhooks, and out-of-order events need careful handling.
- “Check capacity, then add attendee” can overbook when two executions race.
- You still need to implement conversation state and booking rules somewhere.
Google Calendar is fine for displaying classes, but an event doesn’t inherently provide an atomic “reserve one of 15 seats” operation.
You don’t need a traditional backend service, but you do need a little backend logic. For this use case, a serverless handler plus a database is likely cheaper and easier to reason about than a long Make scenario.
Cost: why under $100 is plausible
Assume 500 people per month, each sending approximately 10 messages that require a model response.
That’s about 5,000 model calls/month. As an illustrative calculation:
Average input per call:   2,000 tokens
Average output per call:    150 tokens

Monthly input:  10 million tokens
Monthly output: 0.75 million tokens
At hypothetical model rates of $0.40/million input tokens and $1.60/million output tokens:
Input:   $4.00
Output:  $1.20
Total:   $5.20/month
Those rates are an example, not a current provider quote. Tool-call round trips and longer conversations increase usage, but this still shows why the model itself shouldn’t cost hundreds of dollars at your scale.
A reasonable engineering budget would be:
Component
Serverless compute, database, scheduled jobs
LLM usage
WhatsApp templates
Basic staff interface
For WhatsApp, calculate:
bookings × chargeable templates per booking × applicable template rate
If all 500 people book and each receives two chargeable messages, that’s 1,000 template deliveries. At a hypothetical $0.01 each, that’s $10; at $0.05, $50. Actual rates depend on recipient market, template category, and current Meta pricing. A Dallas gym might still have customers using non-US phone numbers.
So yes: a sub-$100 operating budget is credible. We’d verify current model and Meta rates before settling the estimate. Direct API access also avoids a messaging vendor’s extra subscription or markup.
How the agent should actually work
Let the model handle language and intent. Let deterministic functions handle availability and reservations.
For example:
getGymInfo({ topic })

listAvailableClasses({
  startDate,
  endDate,
  timeOfDay?: "morning" | "afternoon" | "evening"
})

bookTrial({
  classId,
  customerName,
  whatsappNumber,
  whatsappConsent,
  requestId
})

getBooking({ bookingId })

rescheduleBooking({
  bookingId,
  newClassId,
  requestId
})

cancelBooking({
  bookingId,
  requestId
})
The application supplies the authenticated conversation/customer identity to these functions. The model doesn’t get to pick arbitrary customer IDs or access other people’s bookings.
A conversation can stay natural:
Customer: ¿Tienes el lunes a las 8?  
Bot: ¡Sí! 💖 Hay lugar el lunes 28 a las 8:00 AM. ¿Te reservo tu clase gratis?  
Customer: Sí.  
Bot: ¡Perfecto! ¿Cuál es tu nombre y a qué número de WhatsApp te enviamos la confirmación y el recordatorio?
Once the required details and messaging permission are collected, the agent calls bookTrial.
The bot only says “confirmed” after the booking function returns success. If the last seat disappeared between availability lookup and booking, it offers the next available classes.
No external page required.
Keep durable state outside the prompt
Store structured facts such as:
{
  "preferred_time_of_day": "morning",
  "selected_class_id": "class_2026_09_28_0800",
  "customer_name": "Ana",
  "whatsapp_number": "+1...",
  "whatsapp_consent": true,
  "booking_id": null
}
Use recent messages plus this state for each model call. Don’t replay the entire lifetime conversation forever.
The important part: booking correctness
The schema can be small:
customers
  id, name, phone, whatsapp_consent_at

channel_identities
  customer_id, channel, channel_scoped_user_id

class_instances
  id, starts_at, capacity, reserved_count, status

bookings
  id, customer_id, class_instance_id, status

conversations / messages
  channel identity, message IDs, structured state, recent history

notification_jobs
  booking_id, kind, scheduled_at, status, delivery metadata
Use America/Chicago for scheduling rules and display, and UTC for stored instants. Generate actual dated class instances from the weekly schedule.
Reserve seats atomically
Avoid:
if (await availableSeats(classId) > 0) {
  await insertBooking(...);
}
Instead, use a database transaction or an equivalent supported atomic operation:
UPDATE class_instances
SET reserved_count = reserved_count + 1
WHERE id = ?
  AND status = 'open'
  AND reserved_count < capacity
RETURNING id;
The seat update and booking insertion must succeed or fail together. Exact implementation depends on the database; D1’s transaction interface differs from Postgres.
Also enforce:

- Idempotency for repeated booking requests.
- Deduplication of Meta webhook events.
- Ordered processing per conversation.
- Duplicate active-booking prevention.
- Atomic rescheduling, so a failed move doesn’t lose the original seat.
- Reminder invalidation when a booking is cancelled or moved.
The capacity calculation must include everyone occupying a seat. If existing members attend those same classes, either their reservations also go into this system or you explicitly allocate a fixed number of trial spots per class. Otherwise the bot only knows trial capacity, not actual class capacity.
WhatsApp confirmations and reminders
Create approved utility templates for:

1. Booking confirmation.
2. Class reminder.
For example:
¡Hola {{1}}! Tu clase gratis en Dallas Wellness Club está confirmada
para el {{2}} a las {{3}}.

📍 2640 Old Denton Rd, Carrollton, TX 75007
¡Nos vemos pronto! 💖
A scheduled job finds due reminders, checks the booking is still active, and sends the template. Persist delivery status and handle retries deliberately.
If customers reply on WhatsApp, route those inbound messages through the same agent so they can ask questions, cancel, or reschedule there too. An Instagram chat does not open WhatsApp’s customer-service messaging window, so template handling still matters.
My recommendation
Use Workers + D1 + direct Meta APIs + a low-cost tool-calling model. Build the booking engine and a minimal staff schedule view yourself. At this scale, the infrastructure is tiny; most of the work is integration and getting conversational edge cases right.
The first architectural question to settle is: do existing members reserve individual classes, or do they simply show up? That determines whether we build a shared class-capacity system or a simpler trial-slot allocation system.
▣  Build · GPT-6 Astra · 1m 3s
is the staff view component going to be airtable? or does google calendar do the work. whichever api works better i think, depending on pricing too. as you said make or zapier would be worklflow orchestrators but what does it mean? do they connect meta with the llm or what? how do we make this automatic? when someone sends a message what happens? is there a cronjob checking for new messages or is there an automatic call to an api contact llm or what happens there? i guess this llm will serve as agent or mcp and send instructions to make the is_class_full calls or add_person_to_class idk. so this will use meta ebwhook? is that the way to use?? i guess the booking correctness and relational schema would be defined in airtable, right? or what? i guess my brother would like to be able to see the persons in each class, like their data. i just saw your recommendtion, what's d1? (existing members dont reserve classes via the bot, this is just for the first class i think)
Yes—Meta webhooks are what make this automatic. When someone sends your gym an Instagram message, Meta makes an HTTP request to your application. There’s no cron job checking for new messages.
The main distinction is between where bookings live, what staff see, and what executes the conversation. Those can be separate components.

1. What happens when someone sends a message?
Here’s the full flow:
Customer sends an Instagram DM
              │
              ▼
Meta sends a webhook to your application
POST <https://your-app.com/webhooks/instagram>
              │
              ▼
Your app validates and stores the event
and acknowledges receipt to Meta
              │
              ▼
Your app processes the message
Loads conversation state + calls the LLM
              │
              ▼
LLM requests a tool, if needed
e.g. list_available_classes(...)
              │
              ▼
Your app executes that function
Reads availability from your booking store
              │
              ▼
Your app gives the result to the LLM
              │
              ▼
LLM produces the customer-facing response
              │
              ▼
Your app calls Meta’s messaging API
              │
              ▼
Customer receives an Instagram reply
The webhook triggers your code; your code calls the LLM; your code executes the tools. The LLM doesn’t keep running in the background.
For production, I’d acknowledge the webhook quickly and put processing onto a queue. That avoids keeping Meta waiting while the model generates a response and gives you a way to retry failed processing.
Example of a tool call
Customer:
¿Hay lugar el lunes a las 8?
Your application sends the model the conversation and a list of available tools. The model might return a structured request:
{
  "name": "list_available_classes",
  "arguments": {
    "date": "2026-09-28",
    "time": "08:00"
  }
}
Your application executes the corresponding TypeScript function:
const result = await listAvailableClasses(args);
The function returns:
{
  "classes": [
    {
      "id": "trial_2026_09_28_0800",
      "remaining_trial_spots": 2
    }
  ]
}
You feed that result back into the model, which replies:
¡Sí! 💖 Quedan espacios para tu clase gratis el lunes a las 8:00 AM. ¿Te reservo uno?
Later, after collecting the required information and confirmation, the same process invokes book_trial.
That’s an agent-style tool-calling loop. MCP is optional and unnecessary here. MCP is a standard for exposing tools to AI applications; ordinary functions and the model provider’s tool-calling API are sufficient.
2. What would Make or Zapier do?
Exactly what you suggested: they can connect the incoming message to the LLM, the booking store, and the outgoing response.
A workflow might look like:
Receive webhook
    → Look up conversation
    → Call LLM
    → Run requested booking action
    → Save updated conversation
    → Send Instagram reply
“Workflow orchestration” just means executing those steps, passing data between them, and handling branches, delays, and retries.
With Make, those steps are visual modules. With a Worker, they’re TypeScript code.
Approach
Make / Zapier
Cloudflare Worker
You don’t need both. Given that you’re a SWE, I’d use code: the tool-calling loop, conversation ordering, and idempotency are easier to control there.
Scheduled reminders are different: those do need a timer or scheduled job, such as “every minute, find reminders that are due.”
3. What is D1?
D1 is Cloudflare’s managed, SQLite-based SQL database. Workers are the serverless compute; D1 stores the data.
In this design:
Worker = runs your application
D1     = stores customers, trial sessions, bookings, messages
It’s not a calendar or a ready-made staff interface. If you use D1, you need either:

- A small custom staff page, or
- A connection that publishes booking data into something like Airtable or Google Calendar.
My previous recommendation assumed a custom staff page, but that is a choice—not a requirement.

4. Airtable vs. Google Calendar vs. a custom page
For your sibling’s requirement—“show me the people in each class and their details”—Airtable is a more natural fit than Google Calendar.
Airtable: strongest ready-made roster interface
You could define:
Trial sessions
Date/time
Monday, 8 AM
Monday, 9 AM
Trial bookings
Person Phone
Ana +1…
Sofía +1…
Staff can view bookings grouped by session, filter by date, and mark attendance.
Advantages

- Ready-made interface with little UI work.
- Linked records work well for sessions and attendees.
- Staff can edit records directly.
- Table, calendar, and other views.
Limitations
- Linked records and rollups are not equivalent to relational database transactions and constraints.
- “Read remaining seats, then create booking” isn’t atomic.
- API limits, record limits, and paid-editor pricing matter.
- Direct staff edits can bypass rules implemented only in your application.
Airtable can work as the primary store, but booking correctness would still live partly in your code. You’d need to serialize reservation attempts and account for staff edits; the schema alone doesn’t prevent overbooking.
Also, don’t assume Airtable’s free tier will work indefinitely. At 500 bookings/month, even one record per booking means 6,000 new records/year, before sessions or other records. Current plan limits and pricing would need checking.
Google Calendar: good schedule display, weaker roster management
You can create one event per class session, with a description like:
Free-trial attendees: 2 / 3

Ana — +1…
Sofía — +1…
Staff can open the calendar on their phones and see who’s coming.
Advantages

- Familiar interface.
- Potentially no incremental subscription cost if they already use Google Calendar.
- Calendar API use generally has no extra usage charge, though quotas apply.
Limitations
- Customer records embedded in event descriptions are awkward to search, update, and report on.
- Attendance and trial conversion tracking are clumsy.
- Calendar events don’t provide a native class-seat reservation primitive.
- Editing attendee lists in descriptions is a poor foundation for booking correctness.
I’d use Google Calendar as a display of bookings stored elsewhere, not as the authoritative booking database.
D1 + a small staff page: cleanest technical design
The page could be very basic:
Monday, September 28

8:00 AM — 2 / 3 trial spots booked

Name       Phone        Status       Attendance
Ana        +1…          Confirmed     [Mark attended]
Sofía      +1…          Confirmed     [Mark attended]

9:00 AM — 1 / 3 trial spots booked
...
You get proper data modeling and control over updates without syncing two editable systems. But you’re responsible for building authentication and the interface.
5. Since this is only for first classes, simplify capacity
This changes the design considerably.
Because existing members aren’t booking through this system, it cannot know actual total class occupancy unless another source provides it.
Instead, let staff define a trial allowance per class:
Monday 8 AM: 3 trial spots
Monday 9 AM: 4 trial spots
Monday 5 PM: 2 trial spots
The bot reserves against that allowance:
remaining trial spots =
    configured trial capacity − active trial bookings
That means the tool should be named something like:
getTrialAvailability(...)
bookTrial(...)
Rather than claiming to know whether the entire class is full.
You can generate the trial sessions from a recurring weekly schedule and let staff override specific dates for holidays or unusually busy classes.
What I recommend for you
Use D1 as the source of truth, a Worker for the agent, and Google Calendar as the initial staff-facing schedule. That keeps recurring cost low and avoids building a full staff UI immediately.
Instagram / WhatsApp webhooks
              │
              ▼
Cloudflare Worker + queue
    ├── Calls LLM
    ├── Executes booking tools
    ├── Stores bookings in D1
    └── Updates Google Calendar for staff

Scheduled Worker
    └── Sends due WhatsApp reminders
D1 holds structured customer and reservation data. Google Calendar shows a roster for each session. A calendar-sync failure doesn’t erase the booking; your app retries the update.
For this version, calendar descriptions are a view, so staff shouldn’t edit them to cancel bookings. Cancellations can happen through the customer’s chat; add a minimal authenticated staff control page when staff need to manage bookings themselves.
If staff need editable rosters, attendance tracking, and customer filtering from day one, choose Airtable for the staff interface instead. Just recognize the tradeoff: using it alone means more booking-consistency logic; syncing it with D1 means more integration logic.
My default would be D1 + Calendar for a lean first version, then a tiny staff page once you know exactly what staff actually need.
▣  Build · GPT-6 Astra · 1m 11s
just so you know, talked to my brother adn there won't be limited seats, as much people as possible so theres no need to check availability functions, just add them. work got easier. also as i said, when a customer starts paying membership he wont use this workflow anymore, he will use gymdesk which is another tool that we dont need to touch at all. so each new customer will do this once. this is just TO CATCH the customer and then my brother the owner will hook him into payign the membership. if theres no limit and the only thign that you will see in the calendar are the NEW attendees/possible customers, is there still need for airtable? what do you think? which is easier to integrate? btw can you tell me a good repo name for this whole project? maybe booking-orchestration something ikd give me ideas
Yes—that makes this much simpler. I’d drop Airtable and use Google Calendar for the trial bookings. With unlimited seats, no member scheduling, and no Gymdesk integration, you don’t need a class-capacity system.
This is a lead-to-free-trial booking assistant, rather than a full gym booking platform.
Google Calendar fits this version well
Create a dedicated calendar called DWC Free Trials, with one event per prospect’s reservation.
For example:
Event title
Free trial — Ana García
Time
Monday, September 28 · 8:00–9:00 AM
Description
Name: Ana García
WhatsApp: +1…
Instagram: @ana…
Language: Spanish
Booking ID: trial_abc123
Use the actual class duration once defined. Multiple prospects at 8 AM simply produce overlapping events. Your brother opens the calendar and sees who’s expected.
One event per prospect is easier than one event per class with a shared attendee list: creating, rescheduling, or cancelling a reservation only changes that person’s event. You avoid repeatedly rewriting a shared event description.
The tradeoff is visual clutter if dozens of people book the same class. If that becomes common, a roster view would be nicer—but it doesn’t justify Airtable upfront.
Which is easier to integrate?
  Google Calendar
Initial API setup More involved Google authentication setup
Creating a trial reservation Create an event
Staff schedule view Already built and familiar
Rescheduling Change event start/end
Customer filtering/reporting Basic
Extra subscription Usually none for an existing Google account
Airtable is arguably quicker for the first API call, but Google Calendar is the better fit for your actual workflow. Its event model already matches what you need.
What the simplified application does
Instagram DM
     ↓
Meta webhook → Your Worker → LLM
                               │
                               ├── Answer gym questions
                               ├── Explain the free trial
                               ├── Offer scheduled class times
                               └── Collect name, phone, and chosen time
                                             ↓
                                   Create trial reservation
                                             ↓
                                   Google Calendar event
                                             ↓
                                   WhatsApp confirmation

Scheduled job → WhatsApp reminder before the class
You can remove all seat-counting and availability tools.
The remaining tools could be:
getClassSchedule()
bookTrial({ name, phone, sessionStart })
rescheduleTrial({ bookingId, sessionStart })
cancelTrial({ bookingId })
The application supplies customer identity and recorded WhatsApp consent from conversation state rather than letting the model invent them.
No availability check, but still validate the schedule: the model shouldn’t book Sunday at midnight if classes only run Monday–Friday at the specified times. Also account for closures and holidays.
Do you still need D1?
I’d keep a tiny D1 database for application state—not for managing class capacity. Google Calendar becomes the staff-facing booking record; D1 tracks the automation:

- Conversation history/state.
- Which Instagram customer has which reservation.
- Google Calendar event ID.
- WhatsApp number and messaging consent.
- Processed webhook IDs, to prevent duplicate handling.
- Confirmation/reminder delivery state.
That’s a few small tables. No seat inventory, member records, payments, or Gymdesk synchronization.
Also make booking creation retry-safe: if Google successfully creates an event but your request times out, a retry shouldn’t create a second reservation. A stable booking ID mapped to a Calendar-compatible event ID helps with that.
One operational decision
If your brother edits or deletes events directly in Google Calendar, the reminder job should check the current event before sending, so it doesn’t remind someone about an old time or cancelled reservation. At this scale, polling your tracked upcoming events on a schedule is a reasonable starting point; Google push notifications aren’t necessary initially.
And while each prospect normally uses this once, retain enough state to recognize:
“I already booked—can I change it to Tuesday?”
Without Gymdesk integration, the app won’t know who later purchased a membership. That’s fine for this workflow; it simply shouldn’t pretend to know.
